Well, did you read the Fauci emails? Yes. The freedom of information emails.
That's really crazy because, well, he, first of all,
he's admitting in these emails, that masks don't work he's Wey. Yes.
Yeah. He talked about it. Talked about it openly.
Uh, wait, I didn't know that part.
I knew I only here's the thought you're gonna talk about the, uh, well that too.
But here's the thing, part of the email was look,
part of the mask conversation with Fauci has always been that at the beginning
of the pandemic, he said, masks didn't work Uhhuh. But then he said,
the reason he said that is because there wasn't enough masks for first
responders and hospital staff. And he didn't,
he wanted to make sure that the supply wasn't diminished.
So he said that he didn't tell the truth, Uhhuh, Uhhuh. Okay.
But in these emails, he's also, these are private emails.
He's saying masks don't work for real. Yes. He's saying they're, they're,
they're not effective for what you outside of a hospital setting Uhhuh.
But these masks, like for personal use though,
the kind of cloth masks and paper masks that everybody's wearing,
they're they're not effective. They're not, they can't exactly what did he say?
Let's let's pull. So we get exactly what he said,
but that's not even the big part.
The big part is he's talking about gain of function research in the Wuhan lab,
and he's concerned about it and thinking whether or not they had paused that and
whether they're still doing that.
And he's trying to connect the gain of function,
research in the Wuhan lab with this COVID breakout and whether that's where it
came from. Right. And why is that a big deal? Because that's, they funded it.
The NIH funded these people who funded the gain of function research
in the Wuhan lab, which means they're responsible for funding.
The very research that led to this outbreak, if that's where it came from.
Right. So all this time, when he, he is been saying, it came from nature,
there's no way it came from a lab. Well, you know, that's shifted right now.
Everybody's saying, well, now everyone from.
A lab. Right, right, right. But then not confirm because the.
Evidence, right. But the evidence is pointing. Yeah.
As it's most likely that it came from a lab Uhhuh this whole time,
Fauci has been saying it didn't,
but you see in his emails that he was concerned.
Well, concern, but isn't that, but isn't that like,
just trying to figure out what the information is. Not really mean.
Cause he doesn't definitively know either. Right?
There's a lot of indications. According to the email mm-hmm <affirmative>,
he's talking to another scientist, right?
The scientist points out the variables are the, the, the, um,
the components of the virus.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> that's to indicate that it possibly came from a lab Uhhuh,
but publicly he's been out and out dismissing that because
he's connected to.
That research.
Yeah. Cause he's connected to the very research they were doing there.
Uhhuh it's really complicated. It's it's Rand. Paul's been grilling them.
Have you seen those things? Hey, go, typical mask.
You buying a drugstore is not really effective in keeping out the virus,
which is small enough to pass through the material. It might however,
provide some slight benefit in keeping out gross droplets.
If someone coughs or sneezes on you.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I do not recommend that you wear a mask,
particularly since you're going to a very low risk location. See,
this is just him saying that these drugstore masks are not really effective.
Right. But this is,
this is in an email after he has said publicly mm-hmm <affirmative> that you
didn't have to wear masks because they, they didn't really help.
And then he's saying this in, after that, he said, well,
he wasn't telling the truth there because he didn't want people to buy all the
masks. But then he's saying this after that, right.
In an email that they don't really work, but yet he's wearing a mask.
That's kind of like that's, there is shades in that.
There's like the gross droplets, gross droplets.
And if you're in a low risk location, like what's his motivation to like,
why would he profess masks if he thought.
Well, because that's, they don't work part.
The narrative is everybody needs to mask up. But why? Like, well,
because it makes people feel safer.
A it helps people get back to work B and it obviously is providing some benefit.
Something's listen, this,
my take something's had happening because the flu cases are down solo. Oh yeah.
So is that because of people wearing masks,
is that because of social distancing?
Cause everybody's kind of freaked out and staying away from each other for so
long, washing.
Their hands everywhere they go getting, having, having Purell every, I.
Don't think that's at every spot. I don't think that's it because it's a,
you're talking about something that's airborne. It's well.
For them, but for your, to get a cold, you know, your hands and touching your,
all those things, all those.
Things. Yeah. Maybe, but I there's something,
something there's very well likely something to masks that
maybe we weren't aware of. Mm-hmm <affirmative> so even what he's saying there,
yeah. That it might just keep out gross droplets. Yeah.
But isn't it at all about like viral load?
Because like that's the thing they say about a hospital worker.
It's like hospital workers when they're, they're exposed to so much. Right.
When it's over that overwhelming and they really get sick. Yeah.
They get like a heavy, so, so maybe that's what these masks are good for.
What is this? They ask and direct mask. Yeah. Get that.
There you go. Um, which are the protective measures?
Any one should take against the new virus do masks work.
He said the vast majority of people outside China do not need to wear a mask.
Read the Fauci approved response.
A mask is more appropriate for someone who's infected than for people trying to
protect against infection.
Right. Well,
I mean what's but like what's my whole thing with all of this is it's been very
confuse using we're all,
every governor's making decisions everybody's around the world is trying to
figure out and calling a lockdown or calling not a lockdown.
Everyone's like unlimited information,
trying to make the best decisions that they can. Yeah.
Like I don't think that as a governor of a state,
you're making a decision to screw up the economy on purpose.
I don't think that I don't think Fauci is talking about mass to like
harm people. You know what, what I mean, like I,
I feel like they're just have limited information and are trying to muddle their
way through the best that they can, like what.
That's not the real problem is the mass thing. It's a small problem.
The real problem is this gain of function, research. This is the,
the very research that they were doing, where they were reducing up,
what is gain of function.
They were juicing up these viruses to make a more infectious and they were
practicing Uhhuh, like trying to use, uh,
I think they used human lung tissue and trying to get the virus to be
more the, the idea is with, I mean, I'm gonna butcher this for sure.
But I think the idea is when they're doing this research,
they want to find out what makes these viruses more infectious and they were
doing it on the original SARS as well. Yeah.
Which has like a 10% fatality rate. Wow. It's very scary.
Wow. This stuff is less than one. That stuff is way worse. Yeah.
And by doing this gain of function research,
they run the risk of people getting sick.
We just found out a couple of weeks ago that in November of 2019 three
workers from the lab and Wuhan got sent home and
are sent to the hospital rather really ill with coronavirus like symptoms.
And this was before they had COVID 19 tests, right?
Uhhuh <affirmative> this people got sent home.
I believe one of the guys' wives died Uhhuh from COVID and they
think this was the initial infection. So these people in the lab got sick.
So all this time,
while they were trying to dismiss this lab outbreak <affirmative> that had been
hidden from us that these three people in the lab got sick.
The fact that Fauci had something to do with that gain of function,
research and funding,
that gain of function research that had kind of been hidden from us. Well,
that makes it seem Josh Rogan exposed that, but.
That makes it seem like Fauci is like putting on scrubs and walking down the
halls of that place. You know what I mean? Like is Fauci really like in there?
Like, you know what I mean? Like, are.
You defending Fauci?
<Laugh> you know? Yeah. Like, I don't know. I think that he's been put up as a,
someone we can take our fears and anger and, and throw it at. But is he, like,
he may be part of like, you know, these things are huge.
Like there's a big board of people that decide what they're gonna.
Research and you gotta read these emails. You gotta read these emails and read.
Read. So do you think that he's evil? Do you think that.
He's? No. I'm not saying that. So what do you, what are you saying? I think,
I think someone up Uhhuh.
I think they're trying to cover up the fact that they up. Oh, okay.
I think the whole reason why they've been saying that this thing came from
nature, it's a natural spillover is I,
I don't think they're saying that because that's the most likely scenario.
I think they were saying that because they up right now and they,
they didn't want everyone to know that they up.
And I think having the position of power and having the position of authority
that he had, he could say it, it,
no indication just came from a lab.
Who, who is they? Who up? Like who, what is this? Well, the.
The lab in Wuhan for sure. up.
Okay. So who runs that lab?
Well, I don't know,
but I do know that the NIH funded an organization,
they gave money to an organization which gave money to that lab.
That that's the official story. Got it.
And this is the story story like that ran.
Paul talked about Uhhuh when he was grilling Fauci.
This is also what Josh Rogan talked about. Right?
He's a journalist that investigated all this. What Josh,
what Rogan was saying was that during the Trump administration,
everything was so chaotic that they just kind of,
they were able to restart this,
this kind of dangerous research that Obama had put the breaks on Uhhuh Obama.
Apparently like, what the are you doing Uhhuh? Like, why you,
why are you making viruses more deadly? Oh, really?
Stop Uhhuh. <laugh>. Yeah.
And then Trump was let Trump was over there going on number one, I'm the best.
And they're like, I got an idea. Let's start that research back to fly.
I don't know.
Virus force. I mean, it's interesting because, uh,
some that's interesting news organizations are ignoring it completely. And, uh,
other organizations are attacking it's that's when you see like,
whether or not the news is really the news,
because you see the difference between the way the left wing news is covering
it, which is a lot of 'em are just out and out ignoring it.
You and then the right wing news coverage.
They're constantly bringing up these emails, right.
Pulling 'em out and saying hashtag fire Fauci and all this.
Different. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's the thing it's like, once you start,
once you start, um, calling out like, this is our side thing,
like I saw the,
there was a headline in the new Yorker or the New York times that said why
it's important to why it's so important to figure out whether this lab
theory is correct or not. Yeah. And it was like,
that was kind of the first time I saw it in those,
in those papers.
Of like, oh no, it was in news. It was in Newsweek couple months ago. No,
but I'm saying that was like the first that.
The first crash fired. Yeah.
Yeah. Cause you saw, I mean,
you see it on the cover of Newsweek when they start to consider it again. Yeah.
Yeah. But it.
It was political Trump. Yeah. It was totally.
Political. Trump was such, he was such a polarizing figure.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> that? And people hated him so much.
And anything that guy said mm-hmm <affirmative> everybody was like, him.
Let's go the other way. Right. He said,
it came from a lab that it definitely didn't come from a lab.
Yeah. Well that's the right. That's the boy that cried Wolf syndrome. Right.
It became like, exactly. He kind of did that to himself. He,
he just keeps saying such crazy that everybody was just and making and
calling out everybody and yelling <laugh>.
Meanwhile, Fauci just wrote a book. So he is releasing a book on this now, uh,
making money off of a book. Oh yeah.
And he's also the same guy that told us we would never shake hands again.
I think.
He's adorable though. He's little,
he's got like a little like a bro kind of thing.
Going, I got an action figure. Somebody sent me a pouchy action figure. Yeah.
With a masks on it has a mask on sitting on my desk. He's.
Adorable. He's funny. He put him out there. He's like, you know,
there's like all look, I would love to know what that will like. Okay.
So if we're trying to get into the truth of it, which is what we need. Right.
We need to know.
Well, obviously you and me are not gonna get into the truth of it.
Well, please. I'll, let's just,
you could tell me the fact right now and I'll forget it by the next subject.
<laugh> but if they're trying to figure that out,
like who is behind Wuhan,
like who is making those decisions to do all this stuff? Like,
and how far is that a global thing? Like, is the us a huge part of it was,
was Norway really involved? Like who, well, they have a bunch of.
I don't know what it is, China, apparently that do this kind of work. Yeah.
And they do, uh, different kinds of work at different kinds of labs.
And the real fear is that in like some labs in the world, mm-hmm,
<affirmative> some places in the world, they do weaponized virus work. Good.
Which means terrifying. That's terrifying,
which terrifying they did that in Russia for, we actually covered that on this,
uh, sci-fi show that I hosted years back. Oh yeah.
Like covered the idea of weapon viruses. Oh. But the thing that they told me,
when we went to, uh, the CDC down in, uh, Galveston, Texas,
they have this big building where they house basically every terrible disease
known to man big thick walls. Oh my God. Ventilation systems.
And everyone's wearing space suits and me and Duncan are high as wandering
around this place. <laugh>.
You.
Brought Duncan. Yeah. Me and Duncan went down there. Oh, that's great. And uh,
the guy was saying that what he's really worried about more than anything is the
things that come from nature. He's like Uhhuh.
We could worry all day about weaponized viruses and he goes,
but the possibility of that is low compared to the possibility of something
jumping from nature, which is very high catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify, including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience
on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for,
for free Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.